In this video, we are going to learn the last
case of subnetting.
In this case, we have 15 PC in our network.
As usual, we are going to calculate the best
prefix we will use, The total IP, subnetmask,
network IP, broadcast IP, and Range IP.
Okay let’s just start.
First let’s determine the best prefix for
15 PC.
Let’s write the powers, 2 to the power of
1 is 2, 2 to the power of 2 is 4, 2 to the
power of 3 is 8, 2 to the power of 4 is 16,
2 to the power of 5 is 32, and so on.
Here now we already have 16 and 32, may be
some of you think that we can use 16 for 15 PC.
But actually, this 16 will be minus by 2,
so the actual is only 14 PC.
Why minus by 2?
Because we will have network IP and broadcast
IP.
And remember that Network and broadcast IP
never can be used.
Once again, if the total IP 16, the IP that we
can used is only 14, this is not enough for 15 PC
So we will use 2 to the power of 5.
And the prefix is 32 minus by 5, which is
/27.
Okay now we have the best prefix we can use.
Next let’s determine which IP we will use.
We can use either 10.0.0, or 172.16, or 192.168
In this case, I will use the first range,
which is 10.
Let’s say the IP is 10.10.10.0/27.
Remember that the last number here will be
change between 0 until 255.
And the third first number will be never change.
And the prefix here is /27, this is result
of our calculation before.
I think enough for this video, in the next
video, we are going to calculate total ip,
subnetmask, network ip, broadcast ip and range
ip.
Thankyou for watching and see you on the next
video